Thank you.
Welcome to session 106.
You know, the Carbon Event Manager is one
of the most important technologies
that we've added to Carbon.
Because it can simplify your code,
make it easier to write
Carbon applications,
improve your performance,
especially on Mac OS X,
and it's the foundation for
most of the improvements that
we're adding to the toolbox.
So here to tell you all about it is the
manager of the high level toolbox team,
Ed Voas.
As Mark said,
Carbon Events is one of the most
important technologies to learn
about as an application developer.
The reason for this is that it permeates
everything we do in the toolbox.
Every one of the toolbox managers,
like the Window Manager, Menu Manager,
etc., deals with Carbon Events,
at least in some respect.
It is the Alpha and the Omega.
So what you're going to learn about
here is you're going to learn a
brief overview of Carbon Events.
We're going to try to talk about
basic fundamental principles,
how it works, what makes it go.
We'll also show you how easy
it is to actually build a
Carbon Event-based application.
and we'll also show you some
examples of how you can extend
the toolbox via Carbon Events.
So what Carbon Events is,
is a direct dispatching model.
Events are dispatched directly
to objects in your application.
This is in contrast to the
Wait Next Event model where it's
up to you to pick up an event
and decide what to do with it.
The Toolbox can do that for you.
And with that,
the toolbox can also provide many,
many default behaviors.
All the things that make
a Mac application behave
like a Mac application.
But your applications can override
those default behaviors and extend it
in ways that make sense for your app.
And while we have a pure
Carbon Event-based model,
you can also use Carbon Events in your
WaitNext Event-based applications.
This is to allow you to actually start
installing handlers and eventually
get to a point where you don't need
to call WaitNext Event anymore.
So why did we do this?
Well, first off, if you remember the
event record structure,
our friend,
it only has a possibility of 16 events.
And the reason for this is because
there's only 16 bits in an event mask.
We wanted a system where we
could send hundreds of events,
possibly thousands of events,
all different types.
If you were to look in
carbontevents.h right now,
you'd see hundreds of
events already existing.
We also wanted to unify
different models that we had.
We had event records for receiving
events by your application.
We also had DefProx for
Windows controls and menus.
And we also had different
notification callbacks that you
can install for whatever they were.
But each one of these was different.
And every time we did install a new
callback or define a new callback,
it had a different API,
you had to learn it, and
is just mayhem.
So what we're trying to do with
Carbon Events is unify all of that
into one model that's easy to learn,
it's flexible, and it subsumes everything
else that we've ever done.
This also makes it simple
to write applications,
not only because it's a simple model,
learn it once and you know it,
but also because, as I mentioned,
the toolbox provides default behaviors.
So you get to write the code that
matters for your application.
And lastly, we wanted an API that would
encourage good performance,
particularly on Mac OS X.
So I mentioned we're going to show you
how to build a Carbon Event-based app.
It's really simple.
The easiest way to do that is with
Project Builder and Interface Builder.
If you were here for the
last session before this one,
that was with Interface Builder.
That is really the star of this duo here.
And that's what allows you to
throw together a Nib file and just
have it run via Carbon Events.
So what I'd like to do is actually bring
up somebody to show you how to do that.
So here's one of the engineers
from the High Level Toolbox team,
Guy Fulladin.
So I'm going to show you a little
bit about what Ed was talking about
with respect to Project Builder and
Interface Builder and how they make
your life really easy when you want to
make a Carbon Event-based application.
Project Builder supports a whole
bunch of different types of
applications that you can make.
I'm going to start off with a
nib-based Carbon application.
There we go.
All right.
So you run the app, and it just works.
Well, on a clean system.
All the basic event handling
is taken care of for you.
You can click on the window title
bar and drag your window around.
You can resize it.
You can select things from the menus
and you can quit the application.
The best part, though,
is the fact that this all
happens with virtually no code.
This is just a page of code.
This is all that there
is in the application.
All it does is it opens
up the nib for the app,
sets up a menu bar, creates a window,
cleans up after the nib,
shows the window,
and runs the application event loop.
And everything else is taken care
of by the Carbon Event Manager.
Now, let's see.
I guess I'm playing with fire here.
I can open up the nib for this
window or for this application.
And as you can see,
it's just a plain old normal blank
window just like we got in the app.
And I can throw some interface elements
into there with Interface Builder,
so that's really cool.
If you got to see the
session right before this,
you got to see how much you
can construct of a Carbon app.
I'm going to go ahead and throw
some edit text fields in here,
make some a little bit bigger,
maybe put some static text in there.
I've got a couple buttons.
Maybe this is going to be an OK button.
Change the name to OK,
make it the default button.
Go up here.
Let's say we want a button that
actually quits the application.
I can change it to be Quit.
And I can say, you know what?
Have the Quit command in you.
Save this nib, go back here,
and I guess if I'm lucky it'll rebuild,
and I can run.
And the interface just
comes up and works.
I wrote no extra code.
This is all just working.
You can type into the text fields.
You can hit Return.
It flashes the OK button.
I don't know if you
can see that up above.
And the coolest bit,
since this Quit button has the
Quit command associated with it,
if I click in it,
the Quit command is propagated to
the application and the default
Carbon Event Handlers just
quit the application for you.
So that's just the very basics
of what Carbon Events and
Interface Builder can do for you.
But this shows that there's
a lot of power in the system
that you can leverage,
and Ed's going to give you some more
details on how you can leverage that.
All right.
So back in 1984,
I was still in high school,
and this is the way
an application worked.
Essentially everything was
done by the application,
and the toolbox was
just there for support.
So the application was
responsible for the event loop.
The application was responsible
for dispatching events.
And of course the application
did something with those
events and their handlers.
This is the new model.
The toolbox is taking a much more
active role in driving an application.
In this model,
the application calls that run
application event loop API you saw.
And it takes care of
dispatching the events.
And all your application needs to
be responsible for is the handlers.
And that's where your application lives
and that's where your value is added.
So as we saw,
we have a lot of standard behaviors that
we support in the toolbox naturally.
Obviously, you can drag windows around,
you can resize them.
If you had a proxy icon
in the window title,
we would handle that automatically for
you with regards to dragging it around.
We also will handle contextual
menu interception for you,
so you don't have to worry about,
you know, control click will just
tell you contextual menu,
do it.
And the other thing is, with this model,
we could actually handle the contextual
menu click ourselves if you didn't.
And at that point, we could say, well,
we're going to do this.
We could say, well,
we always want to put up a
contextual menu when this happens.
And maybe we'll implement something where
we start putting up a contextual menu,
and then we'll send you
a Carbon Event saying,
all right, we're doing a contextual menu.
Please fill it in.
Here's the menu.
So there's a lot of power here.
Obviously with menus,
we deal with tracking the menu bar,
dealing with command keys.
We deal with updating the
menu bar as necessary.
And with controls, we'll automatically
handle all the tracking.
We'll deal with focus
issues and the like.
So, before I get into the real details,
I want to talk in general about
how events flow through the system,
or at least through an
application with Carbon Events.
At the top of this diagram,
you see the Event Queue,
and it has some events in it.
Below that,
we have a diagram representing what
the toolbox considers to be its
canonical containment hierarchy.
At the bottom, we have the application.
It is the container of everything.
Above that, we have menus and windows.
So, the owners of menus and
windows are the application.
and each window can own controls
and each control can actually have
sub-controls based on our standard
control manager control hierarchy.
So what happens is an event
comes off the queue and then the
toolbox looks at it and says,
"Okay, what kind of an event is it?
Where should it go?" For this example,
we'll say it should go to a
control that's right below it.
Once it gets into the control,
it looks something like this.
Each control has a target
associated with it,
and this is the receptor
for a Carbon Event.
Each target can have multiple event
handlers installed on that target,
and they're installed
in the form of a stack.
The last handler installed
is topmost on the stack.
The last handler installed is the
first handler to get the events.
That is how applications
override toolbox behaviors.
So in this diagram,
essentially we have an application
handler at the top called My Handler.
Below that we have some handler
that was installed by the toolbox,
possibly a standard handler.
and then below that we
have an Object Handler.
And this can be thought of as the actual
def proc that's driving this control.
So we're going to go through a worst case
scenario where nothing wants this event.
It's unwanted.
You can feel bad about it.
So,
As this event goes through,
essentially we look at each handler,
see if it was registered for this event,
and if it wasn't, we will bypass it.
Or it might be that the handler
receives the event but decides at this
time it doesn't want to handle it.
So it basically reports,
"I haven't handled it."
So if this happens for all the handlers,
it'll just fall through.
And out of the object.
At that point, the toolbox decides
where should it go next.
And again,
it uses the standard containment
hierarchy to decide that.
So in this case,
it will go to the window next.
and then if it isn't handled there,
it'll propagate out to the application.
And this is where all
unhandled events will end up.
Now if the application doesn't handle it,
it'll actually just get dropped.
If you happen to be a
WaitNext Event-based app,
If an event is unhandled
by any of your handles,
it'll actually be returned to
WaitNextEvent as long as it was an event
that could be returned to WaitNextEvent,
like a mouse click.
Okay, details.
The first thing you need to
know is about the Event Ref.
The Event Ref is the replacement
for the old Event Record structure.
And in grand toolbox tradition,
it's opaque.
You have to use accessors to get at it.
Each event is identified
by a class and a kind.
So a mouse down event would
actually have a event class
of K event class mouse.
It's a mouse event.
And the kind is just some
sub-event of that class.
In this case, mouse down.
Now, mouse down, all by its lonesome,
just knowing that the mouse
went down isn't very useful.
Usually you want to know
where it actually happened,
what the modifier keys were,
things like that.
Maybe what button was pressed.
And the way we do that is we
have an extensible parameter
mechanism on an event.
So all of the things I just
mentioned can actually be added
to the event as parameters.
Each parameter can be accessed
through some mnemonic name,
a constant.
Each parameter can also have a type.
So the mouse location is actually
stored as a QuickDrawPoint.
So we would actually use a
constant representing that type,
like type QDPoint.
The important thing about an event
ref is it's not just one way.
Event records were always
something happened.
Mouse down,
"Window activated", it's
always past tense kind of.
Event refs can actually be used
in a much more active role.
You can actually send an event
ref someplace to get information.
The recipient of the event can actually
store information in the event ref,
so that after you send the event,
you can extract the
information out of that.
One good example is hit
testing in a window.
As I mentioned, we're trying to replace
defprox with Carbon events,
and in fact, the native messaging model
for windows and controls in
Mac OS X is Carbon events.
We actually simulate the old proc
pointer based stuff on top of that.
So when we're going to do hit testing,
what happens is we get the point.
We actually send a hit test
Carbon Event to the window.
The window then turns around and says,
"Okay, this part was hit." Stores
it in the Carbon Event.
So this way,
when the sender gets the event back,
they can actually see,
they can extract that parameter and
find out where the mouse was hit.
Carbon Events are extensible.
Extensible to the point that you
can actually create your own.
You can use maybe your application
signature or whatever you want as
your event class and then have your
own suite of events which you can
send around in your application.
The Event Queue is a little
different in Mac OS X.
Under Mac OS 9, or traditional Mac OS,
the Event Queue is shared
among all applications.
On X, that's not the case.
Each application gets
its own Event Queue.
When events come into that
application via the Windows Server,
they're queued up in that
application Event Queue.
However, within an application,
we take it one step further in that each
MP Task can get its own Event Queue.
If you're running an MP Task and on that
MP Task you call Get Current Event Queue,
you will get a private
Event Queue for that MP Task.
You might hand the Queue
Ref for that queue to some
other entity in the application,
and then you can start using that
to actually post events between
threads using Carbon Events.
Now, you might just use MP Primitives
to do messaging back and forth,
but you can also use
Carbon Events as it adds a much
more expressive method of events.
In contrast, all cooperative threads,
including the main thread
of the application,
share one event queue.
And that's the main event queue.
And that is the queue that receives
all the events from the Windows Server,
as I mentioned.
Whenever you're waiting on
an event queue for an event,
this allows timers to fire.
What the heck's a timer?
is the replacement for the
Null Event processing mechanism
through WaitNextEvent.
And WaitNextEvent,
if you don't handle an event,
you get a Null Event.
I mean,
if there's no event for your application,
you get a Null Event.
And then you decide, oh,
I guess I should spend
some time doing something.
Timers allow you to just
request time explicitly.
And as I mentioned,
they only will actually execute while
you're waiting on an event queue.
So these aren't asynchronous
with respect to your application.
They're not running at interrupt
level or anything like that.
They're running at task level.
You can allocate memory, you can draw,
you can call the toolbox.
They're at that level.
The advantage of a timer is that
each object in your application
can ask for its own share of
periodic time if it needs it.
And the timers can be disabled.
So for example,
if you have an edit text control or
something which needs to blink the
cursor or perform some animation,
when that goes inactive,
you might want to disable that.
You can actually remove the timer and
stop using up that time because obviously
there's nothing to animate anymore.
Timers can be set to fire at intervals,
every half second, every second,
or they can be one-shots.
You can say,
"Call me back in 15 seconds."
Timers can actually fire
while the mouse is down.
And this is important to note because,
you know, obviously if you were
processing a null event,
you weren't processing a click,
so it's a little different.
And so this means timers can actually
fire while you're tracking controls
and while you're tracking the menu bar.
So it's something to look out for.
And Mac OS X finally has a
much more reliable heartbeat.
Mac OS 9,
because it's cooperatively scheduled,
any one application can steal the
processor for any amount of time.
So you can't be guaranteed to
get a half second timer firing.
It's much more reliable on Mac OS X.
So as we saw in the example,
you drive your application to
run application event loop.
This is the pure Carbon Event-based--
Carbon Event API,
whatever I'm trying to say.
This is how you run a
Carbon Event-based app.
Once you enter this API,
you will not exit until
somebody-- sometimes a toolbox,
sometimes your own application--
calls quit application event loop.
And while you're in there,
that's what's driving your application.
The toolbox then starts pulling
events off the event queue,
sending them to your
handlers as appropriate.
Alternatively, you can continue to call
WaitNext Event and while you
are inside WaitNext Event,
events will be dispatched to any
handlers that you have installed.
And again, this allows you to start
installing handlers even in your
wait-next-event-based application and
start adopting Carbon Events without
having to go and reconvert your,
I mean, you know,
just redo your entire application over
to be a pure Carbon Event-based app.
So while we're in run
application event loop,
we're inside waitnext-event,
we end up dispatching events.
And where they go is event targets.
And we saw a picture of one.
Each target can have a
stack of handlers inside it.
and they're typically attached
to toolbox objects like menus,
windows, controls.
We also have some special targets.
One of them is called User Focus Target.
We're going to talk about
that a little later.
The other one is the Toolbox Dispatcher.
Whenever run application event loop
pulls an event off the event queue,
it just sends it to
the Toolbox Dispatcher.
You can actually use this fact
to install a handler on the
Toolbox Dispatcher to catch every
event as it was being processed.
It does have its uses here and there.
As I mentioned,
they have a stack of event handlers.
And, of course,
the event handler is where
your application lives.
This is where you receive events.
It's a simple callback.
and You will only receive the
events that you register for.
We don't support wildcarding,
and that was a conscious decision
with performance in mind.
We don't want to start sending
out events to any handler that
could possibly deal with it.
When you're inside your event handler,
you can choose to
actually handle the event,
meaning do something with it,
or not handle it,
meaning let it propagate to some other
object or handler which does want it.
The way it tells the toolbox whether it
handled it or not is by its result code.
If your event handler returns
event not handled error,
That's a key to the toolbox to say,
all right, nothing happened here,
nothing to see here, please move along.
So it sends the event off
to some other handler.
If you return any other status code,
event propagation stops dead
and the event is discarded.
And once we leave a target,
we do propagation.
We saw the diagram of our
containment hierarchy.
That's what we use to decide
where events should go.
So if an entire target
doesn't handle an event,
we decide which target
to send it to next,
and we redirect it.
I mentioned that application target
is where all unhandled events end up.
Now, that's not a complete rule.
There are events which we will
not allow to propagate beyond
the target which we send it.
And the best example of those
are those events which replace
the old defproc messages.
There's no point sending a window
hit test event to the application.
So we only send it to that window object.
And I also mentioned--
How your result code tells the
toolbox if we should propagate or not.
We call that implicit propagation.
You don't really need to do any action
on yourself to make the event propagate
other than control your result code.
However, you can do what I term
explicit propagation,
which is you can actually say, "Alright,
I have this event,
but I want the toolbox to do its
default processing right now because
I'm going to do something after it."
And you do that through an
API called Call Next Event Handler.
So you would receive an event,
just call through,
toolbox might do some default behavior,
and then you can follow up.
So you can be implicit or explicit.
All right, I touched on user focus.
User focus is quite simply
where keyboard events go.
And you can get the user focus
target by calling getUserFocusTarget.
Back in Mac OS 8,
we introduced keyboard focus,
which is great.
So you have a window and you
have some concept of what the
focus control is in that window.
Well, from an event model standpoint,
that's all wonderful and all,
but when we get a keyboard event,
which window should we even start with?
So what we've done is we've
created this concept of user focus,
which is the combination
of the currently active document window
and any focus control in that window.
If the currently active document
window doesn't have a focus control,
that window is considered
to be the user focus.
There are times, however,
when you actually want to
redirect it to some other window,
which isn't the currently
active document window.
Best example would be a
floating palette which accepts
some sort of keyboard input.
You might want to redirect it there.
And you can do so with an
API called Set User Focus Window.
If you're using pure Carbon Events,
you don't really have to even worry
about that because the toolbox will
manage that for you automatically.
User Focus,
along with being the recipient
of the keyboard events,
is also the recipient of HI commands.
HICommands are merely the extension
of the old menu command concept
we introduced in Mac OS 8.0.
So a menu command is just
a position-independent way
of identifying a menu item,
traditionally.
So instead of knowing that when the
user selects Undo from the Edit menu,
it's Menu ID 129, Item 1,
all you need to know is
that the command is Undo.
And it doesn't matter where
it is in the menu bar.
As long as you get Undo,
you know what to do.
When we were doing all
this Carbon Event work,
though,
we decided it would be really good if we
could share this with controls as well.
And you saw an example of that where we
hooked up the quit command to a control.
So the HICommand structure
is actually a little struct,
is the encapsulation of that.
So inside these structures,
it has the command ID as
well as information about
where the command came from.
The propagation path is a little
different based on whether
the command was originated
from a control or from a menu.
If from a control, we just follow the
standard control hierarchy,
starting with the actual control
that originated the command.
For menus,
we send the command to the menu
which originated the command,
and if unhandled at that level,
we then send it to the user focus.
And that is probably what
makes the best sense.
For example, if you're going to select
cut from the edit menu,
the command should probably go
right to that focus control in the
currently active document window,
wherever the user focus is basically.
We also use HICommands to deal with
menu item enabling and disabling.
We talk about this a little bit
more in the Windows and Menus
talk tomorrow.
But essentially,
whenever a menu is about to be displayed,
for each item in the menu,
we send out K event command
update status events.
This is your cue to actually do
something with the command in the menu.
You might want to
enable it or disable it.
Maybe you want to add a check
mark or change its text.
Maybe undo changes from
undo to undo typing.
It's completely up to you.
But we send this right
to the user focus saying,
I'm about to show this.
How should it appear?
When the user selects one of these
menu items or clicks the control,
we send out K event command process.
And that's when you can
deal with the command.
Commands are actually really useful for
doing simple inter-target messaging.
So for example, you can have a window
with controls in it.
And the controls in the window can all
have command IDs associated with it.
And the window can be listening to all
the commands that the controls generate.
So every time you click a
checkbox or drag a slider,
the window can actually
pick that up and say,
oh, checkbox is it.
I've got to go do something.
It's also important to use the standard
command IDs that we've defined in
carbonevents.h whenever possible.
We have a whole list of
them in there right now,
and we're adding more as we speak.
The reason for that is we want to be
able to share the menu bar between
the toolbox and the application.
If the toolbox has something,
You know, up on screen at the time,
we need to enable and disable
certain menu commands,
such as the Edit menu.
We need to be able to
find those by command ID.
There comes a time in every application's
life when you have to go modal.
And typically, we've done that in the
past with modal dialog.
So you call get new dialog,
you bring up your dialog and you
call modal dialog and you sit there.
Until the user hits
OK or Cancel or whatever.
The way to do that in the
Carbon Event model is to call
runAppModelLoopForWindow.
So you can create any window,
be it NibBase, ResourceBase,
we don't care.
We just put it up on screen,
and then you call
runAppModelLoopForWindow.
Now, at some point,
somebody needs to call
quitAppModelLoopForWindow so that you
can actually terminate from the call.
It's very much like
runApplicationEventLoop,
where you enter it,
and you will not exit it until somebody
calls the appropriate quick call.
And this is probably good
enough for most uses,
especially if you're
pure Carbon Event-based.
But you might have an application
which has a lot of legacy code
and you can't necessarily do that.
You need to drive the event
model yourself or drive the event
loop while this thing is modal.
So you can actually share our
modality environment while
driving the events yourself.
And you do that with begin and
end app modal state for window.
And what I mean by our modal
environment is that whenever
we enter this modal state,
we automatically take care of
disabling the menu bar and then
dealing with the click situation.
So we don't allow clicks outside
the window that happens to be modal.
So by using begin and end
up modal state for window,
you can actually use the toolbox's
canonical modality stuff.
All right, we talked about performance.
There are--
A couple of ways that you can
actually tune your app for Mac OS X.
And I mentioned that
Carbon Events help you do that.
First thing is timers as opposed
to using Wait Next Event timeouts.
Ideally, you should have your
Wait Next Event sleep time set to
the maximum it can be and install
timers throughout your application.
That actually goes a long way to helping
toward minimizing unnecessary idle time.
Another thing is tracking loops.
Tracking loops written
traditionally with while still down,
you know, get mouse are very,
very bad on 10.
They make everything else go slow.
So what you need to do is
instead use track mouse location.
We're actually going to show you an
example of that in a few minutes.
Another thing is to try to
use notifications whenever
possible as opposed to polling.
We've done a lot of stuff in the
Carbon Event Model to try to send
you Carbon Events when certain
things happen in your application.
or sometimes outside of your application.
For example,
one common polling situation is
Pulling the process list.
I want to know when the
process comes and goes.
We actually have Carbon Events to
tell you when that happens.
Rather than you sitting there in some
sort of loop or installing a timer to
do this every millisecond or something,
you can just say, "Hey,
let me know when an app gets launched
or let me know when an app quits."
And if you have cases in your
application where you need to do
polling and we don't have a solution,
please let us know because we're
really trying to add as much
in the realm of notifications,
notification events as possible.
So we talked about how Carbon Events is
the native kind of defproc model
for Mac OS X and Carbon in general.
Toolbox Objects is what
allows us to do this.
Toolbox Objects are
effectively an event handler.
that you can define and register with the
Toolbox using Register Toolbox Object.
With this, you can then,
in the Window and Control Managers,
call Create Custom Window or
Create Custom Control,
passing one of these Toolbox
Object refs that you register.
And then that handler that you
associated with the Toolbox object
will get called to deal with all the
events having to do with DefProx.
This is the recommended method for doing
custom controls in Windows these days.
The reason for that is quite simply
this is where we're spending our time.
Carbon Events is like our
future and it's very flexible.
Carbon Events,
we can add parameters and new events.
[Transcript missing]
So that was a lot of stuff.
So what I'd like to do now is actually
bring up Guy again to show you a more
detailed demo and show you about a
lot more of the power that we have.
Oh, yes, power.
GUY DUBROVSKY: All right,
cross your fingers for me.
So the first demo I want to show
has to do with what Ed mentioned
about eliminating polling.
Got a small application here
which is based on that basic
Carbon app that I showed you before.
And I'm running another
application that's on the
system which is a CPU gauge.
This basic app has just a normal window
in it with a couple of bevel buttons.
One of them's good, one of them's bad.
And this app is almost as small
as the one I showed you before.
I added one Carbon Event handler
to it to override mouse
tracking for the bad control.
And the reason I overrode it is
because the system already does the
good thing with respect to polling.
The system,
when it's about to track the mouse,
does not sit in a spin loop.
It calls track mouse location,
which will block and which will
make sure the CPU doesn't get
used when it's not necessary.
So what I did is I overrode the
click handling for the bad control,
and I have a while still
down loop in the bad control.
So if I click on it, you can actually see
the CPU just pin out.
I'm not even moving the mouse,
but the CPU is using up absolutely
everything it possibly can.
If I was trying to download
something in the background,
your download speed would be cut in half.
You don't want to be doing this.
What you really want to do
is either let the toolbox do
the default behavior for you,
which as you can see,
if I click and move around, you know,
I get a little bit of CPU usage,
but if I click and hold it still,
I don't get any usage.
So use track mouse location if
you're currently doing polling loops.
Now, we'll go back to Magnify,
this time for real.
Magnify is an app you may have seen.
I think we've shown it previous years.
It is a simple application which
magnifies the screen pixels that
the mouse happens to be over.
And we do this with a timer.
Magnify updates once every so often,
grabbing the pixels from the screen
and displaying it in the window.
And it also has a Carbon Event Handler
on the window to handle window resizing.
We always want the Magnify window to
be square just because we're that way.
So even if I move the
mouse only horizontally,
the window still
maintains its squareness.
Let me show you.
Oh, the one other thing I want to show
you about Magnify is we also offer
a modal preferences dialog that
lets you configure various things.
You can change the zoom level,
turn off the little info
that gets showed in there,
make it float or not float.
Let's make it not float for now.
So let me show you a little bit of
the code and how we did all that.
The first thing I want to show
you is how we did the timer.
Timers, very simply,
are just a proc pointer
that you register with us,
tell us how often you
want to do something,
and then when your
proc pointer is called,
you get to do whatever you want to do.
So here's our event timer.
We just called it
Magnify Event Loop Timer.
It receives user data,
which is basically like a refcon,
so if you have some global state
you need to reference or some per
context state you need to reference,
you can receive it there.
And our timer goes in there.
We do some various things.
We basically create a port so
we can grab some screen pixels.
And we copy bits it, do various things,
and end up painting it into our window.
So it's one thing to write this,
but you actually need to
install the event-- oh,
you know what?
Didn't want to hide.
Need to do that.
The way you install an event
loop timer is you create a
UPP around your proc pointer.
And you pass that UPP into
Install Event Loop Timer.
You tell it which event loop you
want to install the timer on.
And typically,
you're going to want to install your
timers on the current event loop.
And you tell it how often
you want it to fire.
In this case, I have this timer firing
about once every 20 seconds.
And that's it.
The only thing you have to do after
that is just run the event loop,
and your timer will automatically fire.
So next I want to show you how
to write a basic event handler.
Like I mentioned before,
we have a window handler which
makes sure that our window
resizing always is square.
And just like an event timer,
this is a simple callback proc pointer.
You receive an event, a refcon,
and when your callback is called,
you can extract parameters
from this event.
In this case,
our window extracts parameters.
The attributes from
this particular event.
I know that this handler is
only registered for one event,
so I can just dive right in to
extracting parameters without
looking at the actual event type.
But if I wrote a handler
to handle multiple events,
you'd actually want to switch over
the type of event you're receiving.
So a window bounds change event
actually contains some attributes which
tells you how the bounds are changing.
When the window bounds change,
the window might be resizing
or it might just be moving,
i.e.
the origin is changing.
We only need to do work
when the size is changing.
So I check the attributes to
make sure we're only going
to do work when we need to.
One other thing I want to point out.
We have a result code that we're
going to return eventually.
By default, this result code is
event not handled error.
So if our handler ends up doing no work,
that tells the event subsystem to
just go and do whatever default
processing you would have done.
So going back,
we know that we're changing size.
We get the current
bounds out of the event.
That's the bounds that
the Window Manager figures
you want to really use.
But we take them out.
We don't really want to use them because
we want to make the bounds square.
So we go ahead and we do a little bit
of effort to make the bounds square.
And then we stuff the current
bounds back into the event.
And we set our result to no error.
No error is an indication that
our handler handled the event.
Don't call any default handlers.
Just let this event finish now.
So our handler exits,
the Window Manager ends up getting
the bounds that we've changed
out of the event and it resizes
our window to those bounds.
And as you might imagine,
installing one of these event
handlers is also very simple.
You create a UPP for that handler.
Oh, I keep hitting the wrong keys.
And you call installWindowEventHandler.
You pass it a window.
You pass it the UPP.
And you pass it the list of events that
you're interested in for that handler.
And it just so happens that I am
only interested in the K event
window bounds change event.
Once you do that,
your handler is installed and
anytime the window manager or whoever
might need to call that handler,
anytime someone needs
to call that handler,
it will be called.
The last thing that I want to go
into is handling commands for menus.
We just so happen to have the default
preferences command associated with
the preferences item for our menu.
We need to set up a handler to
handle that preferences item
and display the modal dialog.
In my main,
First thing we do is we enable the
preferences command because we know we
want to allow the user to select that.
And next, after we do some more setup,
we install an application event handler.
Now as Ed mentioned,
when you select a command from a menu,
the first place that command
goes is the menu itself.
Menus don't often handle commands,
and in this case our menu does not
handle that command specifically.
Then the command will
go to the user focus,
which would be the window.
Well, our window isn't particularly
interested in it,
so the event ends up
propagating to the application.
And that's where we want to handle it.
And we have an application handler.
Oh, you know I keep hitting that,
don't I?
Just as you would expect,
we pull out the direct object
out of the process command event,
and it happens to be of type HICommand.
We look to see if it's
the preferences command,
and if so, we do the preferences dialog.
and the Preferences Dialog is
an excellent example of how
you would do a modal dialog.
First, we build the window via a nib.
You don't have to build it via a nib.
You can build it programmatically or via
resources or however you want to do it.
We set up a
and then we install a handler
under the window to handle commands
that are going to be generated
by the controls in that window.
And that's the pref handler.
Then we position it on screen
as appropriate and we call
run appmodeloop for window.
Now when run appmodeloop for
window eventually returns,
we dispose of the window,
we dispose of the event handler,
and then we return from
the preferences function.
So most of this work actually
happens inside the toolbox until
our pref handler gets called.
Our pref handler is going to get
called for commands associated
with controls in the window.
Just like handling menu commands,
we extract the direct object
out of the command event,
take a look at the command ID,
and we do various things.
One of the interesting things is if
we see a magnification change command,
we change our magnification factor
and tell the actual magnify window
to update itself if it needs to.
There are a couple of
standard commands for dialogs,
and those are khicmdok and khicmdcancel.
Those have been associated with the
OK and Cancel buttons in that dialog.
When we see the OK button,
we write out our current settings
to the preferences and we call
quit appmodeloop for window.
That way, run appmodeloop for window will
exit and we can ultimately get out
of do preferences and back into
the normal application processing.
So this Magnify sample
code will be released,
a sample code on the website,
very shortly,
as soon as we can get it up there.
Now those are just the basic
concepts for how you'd implement
sort of Carbon Event handlers
and Carbon Event timers,
but I want to show you the
true power of Carbon Events.
We have another application
on here called Live Buttons.
Now, Live Buttons looks a lot like
one of the earlier apps I built.
It's just very simple,
kind of an ugly dialog.
You know,
we've got some text fields in here.
You know, we've got some buttons.
You can pretend that this was,
I don't know, some kind of fine dialog.
So you click search and it
goes off and does something.
I mean,
we're not really doing anything here.
We're just animating for fun.
We've got an OK button, bevel button,
you know, a little disclosable area,
stuff like that.
And this is all being run by the toolbox.
Now,
the cool thing is Live Buttons is set up
such that we've installed Carbon event
handlers on all the controls in this
window to intercept clicking and drawing.
I can put it into this edit mode and
our handlers that we've installed know
to intercept drawing by drawing blue
frames around each individual control and
intercept clicking by giving you handles
that you can actually resize the controls
and reposition things sort of live.
You can move my button over here,
resize it so the
HIV designers won't like it,
I'm going to move my bevel button
around and do whatever I want.
And as soon as you're
done fiddling with it,
it's live button sample,
lets you turn off edit mode
and you're back to normal.
That's interesting,
but I can't--there we go.
Now, on previous systems,
this sort of functionality would
only be possible if you wrote lots
of extra code or patched the toolbox.
But with Carbon Events,
we allow you to do things
like this in a clean,
legal way.
But Carbon Events certainly
aren't limited to just demo apps.
If you've got a larger
document-based application,
we can serve your needs too.
Now this is simpler text.
This is sort of a new version of
simple text that we're writing.
[Transcript missing]
and wire up functionality into
the font palette that just sends
Carbon Events to the main window.
So I can change the size over there,
I don't know,
or change it with the pop-up or maybe
change it to bold and let's bring it
back to 60 point and do stuff like that.
Now, one other kind of cool thing
that we did in this sample is
handling some window events.
This font palette,
we set it up to handle the balance
change Carbon Event to automatically
snap it to the edge of the window.
I don't know if you can see
that jumping on the big screen,
but as I get close it sort of
automatically snaps it there.
A lot of applications like to group
their palettes together and you can
override certain Carbon Events that way.
But that's not the only thing you
can do with the balance change event.
Now, balance change events are also
good for handling live resize.
We decided to wire that up too.
But then you can get really strange and
what if we only wanted this window to
be displayed on a single monitor and as
the user moved it off you could actually
scrunch it up in very weird ways.
So you can do that too.
There's all kinds of cool things
you can do with Carbon Events and
they scale very well.
I mean,
they're great for demos obviously,
but you can fit them into
large scale applications.
You can wire up little bits
of new functionality to
take advantage of new tools.
You can add little toolbox features
in such a way that it doesn't
disrupt your existing application.
So it's really cool.
I'm going to hand it back over
to Ed for a couple more words.
[Transcript missing]
Well, item one,
start memorizing carbonevents.h.
There will be a test at
the end of the conference.
There's a lot of stuff in there.
We have a lot of documentation
in the header itself to help
you along and get you started.
The Learning Carbon book has
some examples of how to write a
Carbon Event-based application.
I've submitted an article to
Mac Tech which goes into this stuff
in way more detail than we can talk,
you know, in an hour about.
And just start playing with, you know,
interface builder, project builder.
Start building Carbon Event-based apps.
It's really easy to start.
You can just, you
Create a default app and start installing
handles and see what you can do.
I mean the little demo where you
drag the window to the corner of
the screen and it kind of scrunches,
that took about 10 minutes to write.
So, I mean this stuff is really
easy to do and like I said,
there's just a lot of powerful
things you can do with not much code.
And that means there's much more
time for you to spend doing the stuff
that makes your applications great.
And with that,
I'd like to bring out Mark Turner again
to lead us through the roadmap and Q&A.
Thanks.
Thank you, Ed.
Wow.
Those were some kick-ass demos, huh?
Thank you Guy.
Okay, so here we are, 6 o'clock Tuesday.
The next session you
should attend is tomorrow,
Carbon Windows and Menus.
Ed will be back to share with you some
great stuff about Windows and Menus,
obviously.
As you can see, the next two,
Controls and Appearance 1 and 2,
a good pair of sessions to catch.
And finally, I really recommend the
Carbon Performance Tuning
session coming up on Thursday.
If you attended the keynote
or Avi's presentation,
basically every presentation on Monday,
we talked a lot about performance
and how the characteristics of
your app's performance vary whether
you're running on 8 or 9 or Mac OS X.
And so, this Carbon Performance Tuning
session will give you a
lot of useful information.
useful information on how to
tune your app for Mac OS X.